github_url

:   hide

# GPUParticlesCollision3D {#class_GPUParticlesCollision3D}

**Inherits:**
`VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**\<** `Node3D<class_Node3D>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **\<**
`Node<class_Node>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **\<**
`Object<class_Object>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

**Inherited By:**
`GPUParticlesCollisionBox3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionBox3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`GPUParticlesCollisionHeightField3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionHeightField3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSDF3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`GPUParticlesCollisionSphere3D<class_GPUParticlesCollisionSphere3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Abstract base class for 3D particle collision shapes affecting
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
nodes.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-introduction-group
:::

## Description

Particle collision shapes can be used to make particles stop or bounce
against them.

Particle collision shapes work in real-time and can be moved, rotated
and scaled during gameplay. Unlike attractors, non-uniform scaling of
collision shapes is *not* supported.

Particle collision shapes can be temporarily disabled by hiding them.

\*\*Note:\*\*
`ParticleProcessMaterial.collision_mode<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_collision_mode>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} must be
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_RIGID<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_RIGID>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} or
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} on the
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}\'s
process material for collision to work.

\*\*Note:\*\* Particle collision only affects
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
not `CPUParticles3D<class_CPUParticles3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* Particles pushed by a collider that is being moved will
not be interpolated, which can result in visible stuttering. This can be
alleviated by setting
`GPUParticles3D.fixed_fps<class_GPUParticles3D_property_fixed_fps>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to `0` or a value that matches or exceeds the target
framerate.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-reftable-group
:::

## Properties

||
||
||

::: {.rst-class}
classref-section-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.rst-class}
classref-descriptions-group
:::

## Property Descriptions

:::: {#class_GPUParticlesCollision3D_property_cull_mask}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-property
:::
::::

`int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **cull_mask** =
`4294967295`
`ðŸ”—<class_GPUParticlesCollision3D_property_cull_mask>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

::: {.rst-class}
classref-property-setget
:::

- `void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
  **set_cull_mask**(value: `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"})
- `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **get_cull_mask**()

The particle rendering layers
(`VisualInstance3D.layers<class_VisualInstance3D_property_layers>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) that will be affected by the collision shape. By default,
all particles that have
`ParticleProcessMaterial.collision_mode<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_collision_mode>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} set to
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_RIGID<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_RIGID>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} or
`ParticleProcessMaterial.COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_constant_COLLISION_HIDE_ON_CONTACT>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} will be affected by a collision shape.

After configuring particle nodes accordingly, specific layers can be
unchecked to prevent certain particles from being affected by
attractors. For example, this can be used if you\'re using an attractor
as part of a spell effect but don\'t want the attractor to affect
unrelated weather particles at the same position.

Particle attraction can also be disabled on a per-process material basis
by setting
`ParticleProcessMaterial.attractor_interaction_enabled<class_ParticleProcessMaterial_property_attractor_interaction_enabled>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} on the
`GPUParticles3D<class_GPUParticles3D>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
node.
