github_url

:   hide

# Object {#class_Object}

**Inherited By:** `AudioServer<class_AudioServer>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `CameraServer<class_CameraServer>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ClassDB<class_ClassDB>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`DisplayServer<class_DisplayServer>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`EditorFileSystemDirectory<class_EditorFileSystemDirectory>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `EditorInterface<class_EditorInterface>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `EditorPaths<class_EditorPaths>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `EditorSelection<class_EditorSelection>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`EditorUndoRedoManager<class_EditorUndoRedoManager>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`EditorVCSInterface<class_EditorVCSInterface>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `Engine<class_Engine>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`EngineDebugger<class_EngineDebugger>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`FramebufferCacheRD<class_FramebufferCacheRD>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`GDExtensionManager<class_GDExtensionManager>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `Geometry2D<class_Geometry2D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `Geometry3D<class_Geometry3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `Input<class_Input>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`InputMap<class_InputMap>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`IP<class_IP>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`JavaClassWrapper<class_JavaClassWrapper>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`JavaScriptBridge<class_JavaScriptBridge>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `JNISingleton<class_JNISingleton>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `JSONRPC<class_JSONRPC>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`MainLoop<class_MainLoop>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`Marshalls<class_Marshalls>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`MovieWriter<class_MovieWriter>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`NativeMenu<class_NativeMenu>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`NavigationMeshGenerator<class_NavigationMeshGenerator>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`NavigationServer3D<class_NavigationServer3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `Node<class_Node>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`OpenXRExtensionWrapperExtension<class_OpenXRExtensionWrapperExtension>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata<class_OpenXRInteractionProfileMetadata>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `OS<class_OS>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`Performance<class_Performance>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`PhysicsDirectBodyState2D<class_PhysicsDirectBodyState2D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`PhysicsDirectBodyState3D<class_PhysicsDirectBodyState3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`PhysicsDirectSpaceState2D<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState2D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D<class_PhysicsDirectSpaceState3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `PhysicsServer2D<class_PhysicsServer2D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`PhysicsServer2DManager<class_PhysicsServer2DManager>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `PhysicsServer3D<class_PhysicsServer3D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`PhysicsServer3DManager<class_PhysicsServer3DManager>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`PhysicsServer3DRenderingServerHandler<class_PhysicsServer3DRenderingServerHandler>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ProjectSettings<class_ProjectSettings>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `RenderData<class_RenderData>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `RenderingDevice<class_RenderingDevice>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `RenderingServer<class_RenderingServer>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `RenderSceneData<class_RenderSceneData>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ResourceLoader<class_ResourceLoader>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ResourceSaver<class_ResourceSaver>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ResourceUID<class_ResourceUID>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ScriptLanguage<class_ScriptLanguage>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`TextServerManager<class_TextServerManager>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `ThemeDB<class_ThemeDB>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`TileData<class_TileData>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`Time<class_Time>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`TranslationServer<class_TranslationServer>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `TreeItem<class_TreeItem>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`UndoRedo<class_UndoRedo>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`UniformSetCacheRD<class_UniformSetCacheRD>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`WorkerThreadPool<class_WorkerThreadPool>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `XRServer<class_XRServer>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`XRVRS<class_XRVRS>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Base class for all other classes in the engine.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-introduction-group
:::

## Description

An advanced `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} type.
All classes in the engine inherit from Object. Each class may define new
properties, methods or signals, which are available to all inheriting
classes. For example, a `Sprite2D<class_Sprite2D>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} instance is able to call
`Node.add_child<class_Node_method_add_child>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} because it inherits from
`Node<class_Node>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.

You can create new instances, using `Object.new()` in GDScript, or
`new GodotObject` in C#.

To delete an Object instance, call
`free<class_Object_method_free>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. This is
necessary for most classes inheriting Object, because they do not manage
memory on their own, and will otherwise cause memory leaks when no
longer in use. There are a few classes that perform memory management.
For example, `RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} (and by extension
`Resource<class_Resource>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}) deletes itself
when no longer referenced, and `Node<class_Node>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} deletes its children when freed.

Objects can have a `Script<class_Script>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
attached to them. Once the `Script<class_Script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is instantiated, it effectively acts as an extension to the
base class, allowing it to define and inherit new properties, methods
and signals.

Inside a `Script<class_Script>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`_get_property_list<class_Object_private_method__get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} may be overridden to customize properties in several ways.
This allows them to be available to the editor, display as lists of
options, sub-divide into groups, save on disk, etc. Scripting languages
offer easier ways to customize properties, such as with the
`@GDScript.@export<class_@GDScript_annotation_@export>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} annotation.

Godot is very dynamic. An object\'s script, and therefore its
properties, methods and signals, can be changed at run-time. Because of
this, there can be occasions where, for example, a property required by
a method may not exist. To prevent run-time errors, see methods such as
`set<class_Object_method_set>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`get<class_Object_method_get>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`call<class_Object_method_call>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`has_method<class_Object_method_has_method>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`has_signal<class_Object_method_has_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, etc. Note that these methods are **much** slower than
direct references.

In GDScript, you can also check if a given property, method, or signal
name exists in an object with the `in` operator:

    var node = Node.new()
    print("name" in node)         # Prints true
    print("get_parent" in node)   # Prints true
    print("tree_entered" in node) # Prints true
    print("unknown" in node)      # Prints false

Notifications are `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
constants commonly sent and received by objects. For example, on every
rendered frame, the `SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} notifies nodes inside the tree with a
`Node.NOTIFICATION_PROCESS<class_Node_constant_NOTIFICATION_PROCESS>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}. The nodes receive it and may call
`Node._process<class_Node_private_method__process>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to update. To make use of notifications, see
`notification<class_Object_method_notification>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`_notification<class_Object_private_method__notification>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

Lastly, every object can also contain metadata (data about data).
`set_meta<class_Object_method_set_meta>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
can be useful to store information that the object itself does not
depend on. To keep your code clean, making excessive use of metadata is
discouraged.

\*\*Note:\*\* Unlike references to a
`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, references
to an object stored in a variable can become invalid without being set
to `null`. To check if an object has been deleted, do *not* compare it
against `null`. Instead, use
`@GlobalScope.is_instance_valid<class_@GlobalScope_method_is_instance_valid>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}. It\'s also recommended to inherit from
`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} for classes
storing data instead of **Object**.

\*\*Note:\*\* The `script` is not exposed like most properties. To set
or get an object\'s `Script<class_Script>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
in code, use
`set_script<class_Object_method_set_script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`get_script<class_Object_method_get_script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, respectively.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-introduction-group
:::

## Tutorials

- `Object class introduction <../contributing/development/core_and_modules/object_class>`{.interpreted-text
  role="doc"}
- `When and how to avoid using nodes for everything <../tutorials/best_practices/node_alternatives>`{.interpreted-text
  role="doc"}
- `Object notifications <../tutorials/best_practices/godot_notifications>`{.interpreted-text
  role="doc"}

::: {.rst-class}
classref-reftable-group
:::

## Methods

||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||
||

::: {.rst-class}
classref-section-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.rst-class}
classref-descriptions-group
:::

## Signals

:::: {#class_Object_signal_property_list_changed}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-signal
:::
::::

**property_list_changed**()
`🔗<class_Object_signal_property_list_changed>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Emitted when
`notify_property_list_changed<class_Object_method_notify_property_list_changed>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is called.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_signal_script_changed}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-signal
:::
::::

**script_changed**()
`🔗<class_Object_signal_script_changed>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Emitted when the object\'s script is changed.

\*\*Note:\*\* When this signal is emitted, the new script is not
initialized yet. If you need to access the new script, defer connections
to this signal with
`CONNECT_DEFERRED<class_Object_constant_CONNECT_DEFERRED>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-section-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.rst-class}
classref-descriptions-group
:::

## Enumerations

:::: {#enum_Object_ConnectFlags}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-enumeration
:::
::::

enum **ConnectFlags**: `🔗<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

:::: {#class_Object_constant_CONNECT_DEFERRED}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-enumeration-constant
:::
::::

`ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**CONNECT_DEFERRED** = `1`

Deferred connections trigger their
`Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}s on idle time
(at the end of the frame), rather than instantly.

:::: {#class_Object_constant_CONNECT_PERSIST}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-enumeration-constant
:::
::::

`ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**CONNECT_PERSIST** = `2`

Persisting connections are stored when the object is serialized (such as
when using
`PackedScene.pack<class_PackedScene_method_pack>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}). In the editor, connections created through the Node dock
are always persisting.

:::: {#class_Object_constant_CONNECT_ONE_SHOT}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-enumeration-constant
:::
::::

`ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**CONNECT_ONE_SHOT** = `4`

One-shot connections disconnect themselves after emission.

:::: {#class_Object_constant_CONNECT_REFERENCE_COUNTED}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-enumeration-constant
:::
::::

`ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**CONNECT_REFERENCE_COUNTED** = `8`

Reference-counted connections can be assigned to the same
`Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} multiple times.
Each disconnection decreases the internal counter. The signal fully
disconnects only when the counter reaches 0.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-section-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.rst-class}
classref-descriptions-group
:::

## Constants

:::: {#class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_POSTINITIALIZE}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-constant
:::
::::

**NOTIFICATION_POSTINITIALIZE** = `0`
`🔗<class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_POSTINITIALIZE>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Notification received when the object is initialized, before its script
is attached. Used internally.

:::: {#class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-constant
:::
::::

**NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE** = `1`
`🔗<class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Notification received when the object is about to be deleted. Can be
used like destructors in object-oriented programming languages.

:::: {#class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_EXTENSION_RELOADED}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-constant
:::
::::

**NOTIFICATION_EXTENSION_RELOADED** = `2`
`🔗<class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_EXTENSION_RELOADED>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Notification received when the object finishes hot reloading. This
notification is only sent for extensions classes and derived.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-section-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.rst-class}
classref-descriptions-group
:::

## Method Descriptions

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__get}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**\_get**(property: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_private_method__get>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to customize the behavior of
`get<class_Object_method_get>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. Should
return the given `property`\'s value, or `null` if the `property` should
be handled normally.

Combined with `_set<class_Object_private_method__set>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`_get_property_list<class_Object_private_method__get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, this method allows defining custom properties, which is
particularly useful for editor plugins. Note that a property must be
present in
`get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, otherwise this method will not be called.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

func \_get(property):

:   

    if property == \"fake_property\":

    :   print(\"Getting my property!\") return 4

func \_get_property_list():

:   

    return \[

    :   { \"name\": \"fake_property\", \"type\": TYPE_INT }

    \]
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

public override Variant \_Get(StringName property) { if (property ==
\"FakeProperty\") { GD.Print(\"Getting my property!\"); return 4; }
return default; }

public override Godot.Collections.Array\<Godot.Collections.Dictionary\>
\_GetPropertyList() { return new
Godot.Collections.Array\<Godot.Collections.Dictionary\>() { new
Godot.Collections.Dictionary() { { \"name\", \"FakeProperty\" }, {
\"type\", (int)Variant.Type.Int } } }; }
:::
:::::

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__get_property_list}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **\_get_property_list**()
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to provide a custom list of additional properties
to handle by the engine.

Should return a property list, as an
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of dictionaries. The
result is added to the array of
`get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, and should be formatted in the same way. Each
`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} must at
least contain the `name` and `type` entries.

You can use
`_property_can_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`_property_get_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to customize the default values of the properties added by
this method.

The example below displays a list of numbers shown as words going from
`ZERO` to `FIVE`, with `number_count` controlling the size of the list:

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

@tool extends Node

@export var number_count = 3:

:   

    set(nc):

    :   number_count = nc numbers.resize(number_count)
        notify_property_list_changed()

var numbers = PackedInt32Array(\[0, 0, 0\])

func \_get_property_list():

:   var properties = \[\]

    for i in range(number_count):

    :   

        properties.append({

        :   \"name\": \"[number]()%d\" % i, \"type\": TYPE_INT,
            \"hint\": PROPERTY_HINT_ENUM, \"hint_string\":
            \"ZERO,ONE,TWO,THREE,FOUR,FIVE\",

        })

    return properties

func \_get(property):

:   

    if property.begins_with(\"[number]()\"):

    :   var index = property.get_slice(\"\_\", 1).to_int() return
        numbers\[index\]

func \_set(property, value):

:   

    if property.begins_with(\"[number]()\"):

    :   var index = property.get_slice(\"\_\", 1).to_int()
        numbers\[index\] = value return true

    return false
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

\[Tool\] public partial class MyNode : Node { private int \_numberCount;

> \[Export\] public int NumberCount { get =\> \_numberCount; set {
> \_numberCount = value; \_numbers.Resize(\_numberCount);
> NotifyPropertyListChanged(); } }
>
> private Godot.Collections.Array\<int\> \_numbers = new();
>
> public override
> Godot.Collections.Array\<Godot.Collections.Dictionary\>
> \_GetPropertyList() { var properties = new
> Godot.Collections.Array\<Godot.Collections.Dictionary\>();
>
> > for (int i = 0; i \< \_numberCount; i++) { properties.Add(new
> > Godot.Collections.Dictionary() { { \"name\", \$\"[number](){i}\" },
> > { \"type\", (int)Variant.Type.Int }, { \"hint\",
> > (int)PropertyHint.Enum }, { \"hint_string\",
> > \"Zero,One,Two,Three,Four,Five\" }, }); }
> >
> > return properties;
>
> }
>
> public override Variant \_Get(StringName property) { string
> propertyName = property.ToString(); if
> (propertyName.StartsWith(\"[number]()\")) { int index =
> int.Parse(propertyName.Substring(\"[number]()\".Length)); return
> \_numbers\[index\]; } return default; }
>
> public override bool \_Set(StringName property, Variant value) {
> string propertyName = property.ToString(); if
> (propertyName.StartsWith(\"[number]()\")) { int index =
> int.Parse(propertyName.Substring(\"[number]()\".Length));
> \_numbers\[index\] = value.As\<int\>(); return true; } return false; }

}
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* This method is intended for advanced purposes. For most
common use cases, the scripting languages offer easier ways to handle
properties. See
`@GDScript.@export<class_@GDScript_annotation_@export>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`@GDScript.@export_enum<class_@GDScript_annotation_@export_enum>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`@GDScript.@export_group<class_@GDScript_annotation_@export_group>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, etc. If you want to customize exported properties, use
`_validate_property<class_Object_private_method__validate_property>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* If the object\'s script is not
`@GDScript.@tool<class_@GDScript_annotation_@tool>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, this method will not be called in the editor.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__init}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"} **\_init**()
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_private_method__init>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Called when the object\'s script is instantiated, oftentimes after the
object is initialized in memory (through `Object.new()` in GDScript, or
`new GodotObject` in C#). It can be also defined to take in parameters.
This method is similar to a constructor in most programming languages.

\*\*Note:\*\* If
`_init<class_Object_private_method__init>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
is defined with *required* parameters, the Object with script may only
be created directly. If any other means (such as
`PackedScene.instantiate<class_PackedScene_method_instantiate>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} or
`Node.duplicate<class_Node_method_duplicate>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) are used, the script\'s initialization will fail.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__iter_get}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**\_iter_get**(iter: `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__iter_get>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the current iterable value. `iter` stores the iteration state,
but unlike
`_iter_init<class_Object_private_method__iter_init>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`_iter_next<class_Object_private_method__iter_next>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} the state is supposed to be read-only, so there is no
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} wrapper.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__iter_init}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **\_iter_init**(iter:
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__iter_init>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Initializes the iterator. `iter` stores the iteration state. Since
GDScript does not support passing arguments by reference, a
single-element array is used as a wrapper. Returns `true` so long as the
iterator has not reached the end.

Example:

    class MyRange:
        var _from
        var _to

        func _init(from, to):
            assert(from <= to)
            _from = from
            _to = to

        func _iter_init(iter):
            iter[0] = _from
            return iter[0] < _to

        func _iter_next(iter):
            iter[0] += 1
            return iter[0] < _to

        func _iter_get(iter):
            return iter

    func _ready():
        var my_range = MyRange.new(2, 5)
        for x in my_range:
            print(x) # Prints 2, 3, 4.

\*\*Note:\*\* Alternatively, you can ignore `iter` and use the object\'s
state instead, see [online
docs](../tutorials/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_advanced.html#custom-iterators)
for an example. Note that in this case you will not be able to reuse the
same iterator instance in nested loops. Also, make sure you reset the
iterator state in this method if you want to reuse the same instance
multiple times.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__iter_next}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **\_iter_next**(iter:
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__iter_next>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Moves the iterator to the next iteration. `iter` stores the iteration
state. Since GDScript does not support passing arguments by reference, a
single-element array is used as a wrapper. Returns `true` so long as the
iterator has not reached the end.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__notification}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**\_notification**(what: `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__notification>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Called when the object receives a notification, which can be identified
in `what` by comparing it with a constant. See also
`notification<class_Object_method_notification>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

func \_notification(what):

:   

    if what == NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE:

    :   print(\"Goodbye!\")
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

public override void \_Notification(int what) { if (what ==
NotificationPredelete) { GD.Print(\"Goodbye!\"); } }
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* The base **Object** defines a few notifications
(`NOTIFICATION_POSTINITIALIZE<class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_POSTINITIALIZE>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE<class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}). Inheriting classes such as
`Node<class_Node>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} define a lot more
notifications, which are also received by this method.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__property_can_revert}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**\_property_can_revert**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to customize the given `property`\'s revert
behavior. Should return `true` if the `property` has a custom default
value and is revertible in the Inspector dock. Use
`_property_get_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to specify the `property`\'s default value.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method must return consistently, regardless of the
current value of the `property`.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__property_get_revert}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**\_property_get_revert**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to customize the given `property`\'s revert
behavior. Should return the default value for the `property`. If the
default value differs from the `property`\'s current value, a revert
icon is displayed in the Inspector dock.

\*\*Note:\*\*
`_property_can_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} must also be overridden for this method to be called.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__set}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **\_set**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, value:
`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_private_method__set>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to customize the behavior of
`set<class_Object_method_set>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. Should set
the `property` to `value` and return `true`, or `false` if the
`property` should be handled normally. The *exact* way to set the
`property` is up to this method\'s implementation.

Combined with `_get<class_Object_private_method__get>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`_get_property_list<class_Object_private_method__get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, this method allows defining custom properties, which is
particularly useful for editor plugins. Note that a property *must* be
present in
`get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, otherwise this method will not be called.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var internal_data = {}

func \_set(property, value):

:   

    if property == \"fake_property\":

    :   \# Storing the value in the fake property.
        internal_data\[\"fake_property\"\] = value return true

    return false

func \_get_property_list():

:   

    return \[

    :   { \"name\": \"fake_property\", \"type\": TYPE_INT }

    \]
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

private Godot.Collections.Dictionary \_internalData = new
Godot.Collections.Dictionary();

public override bool \_Set(StringName property, Variant value) { if
(property == \"FakeProperty\") { // Storing the value in the fake
property. \_internalData\[\"FakeProperty\"\] = value; return true; }

> return false;

}

public override Godot.Collections.Array\<Godot.Collections.Dictionary\>
\_GetPropertyList() { return new
Godot.Collections.Array\<Godot.Collections.Dictionary\>() { new
Godot.Collections.Dictionary() { { \"name\", \"FakeProperty\" }, {
\"type\", (int)Variant.Type.Int } } }; }
:::
:::::

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__to_string}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **\_to_string**()
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__to_string>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to customize the return value of
`to_string<class_Object_method_to_string>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, and therefore the object\'s representation as a
`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.

    func _to_string():
        return "Welcome to Godot 4!"

    func _init():
        print(self)       # Prints Welcome to Godot 4!"
        var a = str(self) # a is "Welcome to Godot 4!"

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_private_method__validate_property}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**\_validate_property**(property:
`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_private_method__validate_property>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Override this method to customize existing properties. Every property
info goes through this method, except properties added with
`_get_property_list<class_Object_private_method__get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}. The dictionary contents is the same as in
`_get_property_list<class_Object_private_method__get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

@tool extends Node

@export var is_number_editable: bool:

:   

    set(value):

    :   is_number_editable = value notify_property_list_changed()

@export var number: int

func \_validate_property(property: Dictionary):

:   

    if property.name == \"number\" and not is_number_editable:

    :   property.usage \|= PROPERTY_USAGE_READ_ONLY
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

\[Tool\] public partial class MyNode : Node { private bool
\_isNumberEditable;

> \[Export\] public bool IsNumberEditable { get =\> \_isNumberEditable;
> set { \_isNumberEditable = value; NotifyPropertyListChanged(); } }
>
> \[Export\] public int Number { get; set; }
>
> public override void \_ValidateProperty(Godot.Collections.Dictionary
> property) { if (property\[\"name\"\].AsStringName() ==
> PropertyName.Number && !IsNumberEditable) { var usage =
> property\[\"usage\"\].As\<PropertyUsageFlags\>() \|
> PropertyUsageFlags.ReadOnly; property\[\"usage\"\] = (int)usage; } }

}
:::
:::::

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_add_user_signal}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**add_user_signal**(signal: `String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, arguments: `Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} = \[\])
`🔗<class_Object_method_add_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Adds a user-defined `signal`. Optional arguments for the signal can be
added as an `Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of
dictionaries, each defining a `name`
`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} and a `type`
`int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} (see
`Variant.Type<enum_@GlobalScope_Variant.Type>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}). See also
`has_user_signal<class_Object_method_has_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`remove_user_signal<class_Object_method_remove_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

add_user_signal(\"hurt\", \[

:   { \"name\": \"damage\", \"type\": TYPE_INT }, { \"name\":
    \"source\", \"type\": TYPE_OBJECT }

\])
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

AddUserSignal(\"Hurt\", new Godot.Collections.Array() { new
Godot.Collections.Dictionary() { { \"name\", \"damage\" }, { \"type\",
(int)Variant.Type.Int } }, new Godot.Collections.Dictionary() { {
\"name\", \"source\" }, { \"type\", (int)Variant.Type.Object } } });
:::
:::::

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_call}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **call**(method:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, \...)
`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_call>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Calls the `method` on the object and returns the result. This method
supports a variable number of arguments, so parameters can be passed as
a comma separated list.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node3D.new() node.call(\"rotate\", Vector3(1.0, 0.0, 0.0),
1.571)
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node3D(); node.Call(Node3D.MethodName.Rotate, new
Vector3(1f, 0f, 0f), 1.571f);
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `method` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`MethodName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_call_deferred}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**call_deferred**(method:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, \...)
`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_call_deferred>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Calls the `method` on the object during idle time. Always returns null,
**not** the method\'s result.

Idle time happens mainly at the end of process and physics frames. In
it, deferred calls will be run until there are none left, which means
you can defer calls from other deferred calls and they\'ll still be run
in the current idle time cycle. This means you should not call a method
deferred from itself (or from a method called by it), as this causes
infinite recursion the same way as if you had called the method
directly.

This method supports a variable number of arguments, so parameters can
be passed as a comma separated list.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node3D.new() node.call_deferred(\"rotate\", Vector3(1.0, 0.0,
0.0), 1.571)
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node3D(); node.CallDeferred(Node3D.MethodName.Rotate, new
Vector3(1f, 0f, 0f), 1.571f);
:::
:::::

See also
`Callable.call_deferred<class_Callable_method_call_deferred>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `method` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`MethodName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

\*\*Note:\*\* If you\'re looking to delay the function call by a frame,
refer to the
`SceneTree.process_frame<class_SceneTree_signal_process_frame>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`SceneTree.physics_frame<class_SceneTree_signal_physics_frame>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} signals.

    var node = Node3D.new()
    # Make a Callable and bind the arguments to the node's rotate() call.
    var callable = node.rotate.bind(Vector3(1.0, 0.0, 0.0), 1.571)
    # Connect the callable to the process_frame signal, so it gets called in the next process frame.
    # CONNECT_ONE_SHOT makes sure it only gets called once instead of every frame.
    get_tree().process_frame.connect(callable, CONNECT_ONE_SHOT)

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_callv}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **callv**(method:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, arg_array:
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_callv>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Calls the `method` on the object and returns the result. Unlike
`call<class_Object_method_call>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, this
method expects all parameters to be contained inside `arg_array`.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node3D.new() node.callv(\"rotate\", \[Vector3(1.0, 0.0, 0.0),
1.571\])
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node3D(); node.Callv(Node3D.MethodName.Rotate, new
Godot.Collections.Array { new Vector3(1f, 0f, 0f), 1.571f });
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `method` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`MethodName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_can_translate_messages}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**can_translate_messages**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_can_translate_messages>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the object is allowed to translate messages with
`tr<class_Object_method_tr>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} and
`tr_n<class_Object_method_tr_n>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. See also
`set_message_translation<class_Object_method_set_message_translation>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_cancel_free}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**cancel_free**()
`🔗<class_Object_method_cancel_free>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

If this method is called during
`NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE<class_Object_constant_NOTIFICATION_PREDELETE>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, this object will reject being freed and will remain
allocated. This is mostly an internal function used for error handling
to avoid the user from freeing objects when they are not intended to.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_connect}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**connect**(signal: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, callable: `Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, flags: `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} = 0)
`🔗<class_Object_method_connect>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Connects a `signal` by name to a `callable`. Optional `flags` can be
also added to configure the connection\'s behavior (see
`ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
constants).

A signal can only be connected once to the same
`Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. If the signal
is already connected, this method returns
`@GlobalScope.ERR_INVALID_PARAMETER<class_@GlobalScope_constant_ERR_INVALID_PARAMETER>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and pushes an error message, unless the signal is connected
with
`CONNECT_REFERENCE_COUNTED<class_Object_constant_CONNECT_REFERENCE_COUNTED>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}. To prevent this, use
`is_connected<class_Object_method_is_connected>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} first to check for existing connections.

If the `callable`\'s object is freed, the connection will be lost.

\*\*Examples with recommended syntax:\*\*

Connecting signals is one of the most common operations in Godot and the
API gives many options to do so, which are described further down. The
code block below shows the recommended approach.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

func \_ready():

:   var button = Button.new() \# [button_down]{.title-ref} here is a
    Signal variant type, and we thus call the Signal.connect() method,
    not Object.connect(). \# See discussion below for a more in-depth
    overview of the API. button.button_down.connect(\_on_button_down)

    \# This assumes that a [Player]{.title-ref} class exists, which
    defines a [hit]{.title-ref} signal. var player = Player.new() \# We
    use Signal.connect() again, and we also use the Callable.bind()
    method, \# which returns a new Callable with the parameter binds.
    player.hit.connect(\_on_player_hit.bind(\"sword\", 100))

func \_on_button_down():

:   print(\"Button down!\")

func \_on_player_hit(weapon_type, damage):

:   print(\"Hit with weapon %s for %d damage.\" % \[weapon_type,
    damage\])
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

public override void \_Ready() { var button = new Button(); // C#
supports passing signals as events, so we can use this idiomatic
construct: button.ButtonDown += OnButtonDown;

> // This assumes that a [Player]{.title-ref} class exists, which
> defines a [Hit]{.title-ref} signal. var player = new Player(); // We
> can use lambdas when we need to bind additional parameters. player.Hit
> += () =\> OnPlayerHit(\"sword\", 100);

}

private void OnButtonDown() { GD.Print(\"Button down!\"); }

private void OnPlayerHit(string weaponType, int damage) {
GD.Print(\$\"Hit with weapon {weaponType} for {damage} damage.\"); }
:::
:::::

\*\*`Object.connect()` or `Signal.connect()`?\*\*

As seen above, the recommended method to connect signals is not
`connect<class_Object_method_connect>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
The code block below shows the four options for connecting signals,
using either this legacy method or the recommended
`Signal.connect<class_Signal_method_connect>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, and using either an implicit
`Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} or a manually
defined one.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

func \_ready():

:   var button = Button.new() \# Option 1: Object.connect() with an
    implicit Callable for the defined function.
    button.connect(\"button_down\", \_on_button_down) \# Option 2:
    Object.connect() with a constructed Callable using a target object
    and method name. button.connect(\"button_down\", Callable(self,
    \"\_on_button_down\")) \# Option 3: Signal.connect() with an
    implicit Callable for the defined function.
    button.button_down.connect(\_on_button_down) \# Option 4:
    Signal.connect() with a constructed Callable using a target object
    and method name. button.button_down.connect(Callable(self,
    \"\_on_button_down\"))

func \_on_button_down():

:   print(\"Button down!\")
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

public override void \_Ready() { var button = new Button(); // Option 1:
In C#, we can use signals as events and connect with this idiomatic
syntax: button.ButtonDown += OnButtonDown; // Option 2:
GodotObject.Connect() with a constructed Callable from a method group.
button.Connect(Button.SignalName.ButtonDown,
Callable.From(OnButtonDown)); // Option 3: GodotObject.Connect() with a
constructed Callable using a target object and method name.
button.Connect(Button.SignalName.ButtonDown, new Callable(this,
MethodName.OnButtonDown)); }

private void OnButtonDown() { GD.Print(\"Button down!\"); }
:::
:::::

While all options have the same outcome (`button`\'s
`BaseButton.button_down<class_BaseButton_signal_button_down>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} signal will be connected to `_on_button_down`), **option 3**
offers the best validation: it will print a compile-time error if either
the `button_down` `Signal<class_Signal>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
or the `_on_button_down` `Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} are not defined. On the other hand, **option 2** only relies
on string names and will only be able to validate either names at
runtime: it will print a runtime error if `"button_down"` doesn\'t
correspond to a signal, or if `"_on_button_down"` is not a registered
method in the object `self`. The main reason for using options 1, 2, or
4 would be if you actually need to use strings (e.g. to connect signals
programmatically based on strings read from a configuration file).
Otherwise, option 3 is the recommended (and fastest) method.

\*\*Binding and passing parameters:\*\*

The syntax to bind parameters is through
`Callable.bind<class_Callable_method_bind>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, which returns a copy of the
`Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} with its
parameters bound.

When calling
`emit_signal<class_Object_method_emit_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} or `Signal.emit<class_Signal_method_emit>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, the signal parameters can be also passed. The examples
below show the relationship between these signal parameters and bound
parameters.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

func \_ready():

:   \# This assumes that a [Player]{.title-ref} class exists, which
    defines a [hit]{.title-ref} signal. var player = Player.new() \#
    Using Callable.bind().
    player.hit.connect(\_on_player_hit.bind(\"sword\", 100))

    \# Parameters added when emitting the signal are passed first.
    player.hit.emit(\"Dark lord\", 5)

\# We pass two arguments when emitting ([hit_by]{.title-ref},
[level]{.title-ref}), \# and bind two more arguments when connecting
([weapon_type]{.title-ref}, [damage]{.title-ref}). func
\_on_player_hit(hit_by, level, weapon_type, damage): print(\"Hit by %s
(level %d) with weapon %s for %d damage.\" % \[hit_by, level,
weapon_type, damage\])
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

public override void \_Ready() { // This assumes that a
[Player]{.title-ref} class exists, which defines a [Hit]{.title-ref}
signal. var player = new Player(); // Using lambda expressions that
create a closure that captures the additional parameters. // The lambda
only receives the parameters defined by the signal\'s delegate.
player.Hit += (hitBy, level) =\> OnPlayerHit(hitBy, level, \"sword\",
100);

> // Parameters added when emitting the signal are passed first.
> player.EmitSignal(SignalName.Hit, \"Dark lord\", 5);

}

// We pass two arguments when emitting ([hit_by]{.title-ref},
[level]{.title-ref}), // and bind two more arguments when connecting
([weapon_type]{.title-ref}, [damage]{.title-ref}). private void
OnPlayerHit(string hitBy, int level, string weaponType, int damage) {
GD.Print(\$\"Hit by {hitBy} (level {level}) with weapon {weaponType} for
{damage} damage.\"); }
:::
:::::

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_disconnect}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**disconnect**(signal: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, callable: `Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) `🔗<class_Object_method_disconnect>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Disconnects a `signal` by name from a given `callable`. If the
connection does not exist, generates an error. Use
`is_connected<class_Object_method_is_connected>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to make sure that the connection exists.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_emit_signal}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**emit_signal**(signal: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, \...)
`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_emit_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Emits the given `signal` by name. The signal must exist, so it should be
a built-in signal of this class or one of its inherited classes, or a
user-defined signal (see
`add_user_signal<class_Object_method_add_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}). This method supports a variable number of arguments, so
parameters can be passed as a comma separated list.

Returns
`@GlobalScope.ERR_UNAVAILABLE<class_@GlobalScope_constant_ERR_UNAVAILABLE>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} if `signal` does not exist or the parameters are invalid.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

emit_signal(\"hit\", \"sword\", 100) emit_signal(\"game_over\")
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

EmitSignal(SignalName.Hit, \"sword\", 100);
EmitSignal(SignalName.GameOver);
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `signal` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot signals. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`SignalName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_free}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"} **free**()
`🔗<class_Object_method_free>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Deletes the object from memory. Pre-existing references to the object
become invalid, and any attempt to access them will result in a run-time
error. Checking the references with
`@GlobalScope.is_instance_valid<class_@GlobalScope_method_is_instance_valid>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} will return `false`.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **get**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Returns the `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} value
of the given `property`. If the `property` does not exist, this method
returns `null`.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node2D.new() node.rotation = 1.5 var a =
node.get(\"rotation\") \# a is 1.5
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node2D(); node.Rotation = 1.5f; var a =
node.Get(Node2D.PropertyName.Rotation); // a is 1.5
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `property` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot properties. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`PropertyName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_class}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **get_class**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_class>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the object\'s built-in class name, as a
`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. See also
`is_class<class_Object_method_is_class>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method ignores `class_name` declarations. If this
object\'s script has defined a `class_name`, the base, built-in class
name is returned instead.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_incoming_connections}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **get_incoming_connections**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_get_incoming_connections>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns an `Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of signal
connections received by this object. Each connection is represented as a
`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} that
contains three entries:

- `signal` is a reference to the
  `Signal<class_Signal>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `callable` is a reference to the
  `Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `flags` is a combination of
  `ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_indexed}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**get_indexed**(property_path:
`NodePath<class_NodePath>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_indexed>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Gets the object\'s property indexed by the given `property_path`. The
path should be a `NodePath<class_NodePath>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} relative to the current object and can use the colon
character (`:`) to access nested properties.

\*\*Examples:\*\* `"position:x"` or `"material:next_pass:blend_mode"`.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node2D.new() node.position = Vector2(5, -10) var a =
node.get_indexed(\"position\") \# a is Vector2(5, -10) var b =
node.get_indexed(\"position:y\") \# b is -10
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node2D(); node.Position = new Vector2(5, -10); var a =
node.GetIndexed(\"position\"); // a is Vector2(5, -10) var b =
node.GetIndexed(\"position:y\"); // b is -10
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `property_path` must be in snake_case when
referring to built-in Godot properties. Prefer using the names exposed
in the `PropertyName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method does not support actual paths to nodes in the
`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, only
sub-property paths. In the context of nodes, use
`Node.get_node_and_resource<class_Node_method_get_node_and_resource>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} instead.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_instance_id}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **get_instance_id**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_instance_id>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the object\'s unique instance ID. This ID can be saved in
`EncodedObjectAsID<class_EncodedObjectAsID>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, and can be used to retrieve this object instance with
`@GlobalScope.instance_from_id<class_@GlobalScope_method_instance_from_id>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* This ID is only useful during the current session. It
won\'t correspond to a similar object if the ID is sent over a network,
or loaded from a file at a later time.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_meta}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**get_meta**(name: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, default: `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} = null)
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the object\'s metadata value for the given entry `name`. If the
entry does not exist, returns `default`. If `default` is `null`, an
error is also generated.

\*\*Note:\*\* A metadata\'s name must be a valid identifier as per
`StringName.is_valid_identifier<class_StringName_method_is_valid_identifier>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method.

\*\*Note:\*\* Metadata that has a name starting with an underscore (`_`)
is considered editor-only. Editor-only metadata is not displayed in the
Inspector and should not be edited, although it can still be found by
this method.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_meta_list}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **get_meta_list**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_meta_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the object\'s metadata entry names as a
`PackedStringArray<class_PackedStringArray>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_method_argument_count}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**get_method_argument_count**(method:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_get_method_argument_count>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the number of arguments of the given `method` by name.

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `method` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`MethodName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_method_list}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **get_method_list**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_method_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns this object\'s methods and their signatures as an
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of dictionaries. Each
`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} contains
the following entries:

- `name` is the name of the method, as a
  `String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `args` is an `Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of
  dictionaries representing the arguments;
- `default_args` is the default arguments as an
  `Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of variants;
- `flags` is a combination of
  `MethodFlags<enum_@GlobalScope_MethodFlags>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"};
- `id` is the method\'s internal identifier
  `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `return` is the returned value, as a
  `Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};

\*\*Note:\*\* The dictionaries of `args` and `return` are formatted
identically to the results of
`get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, although not all entries are used.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_property_list}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **get_property_list**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the object\'s property list as an
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of dictionaries. Each
`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} contains
the following entries:

- `name` is the property\'s name, as a
  `String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `class_name` is an empty
  `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, unless
  the property is
  `@GlobalScope.TYPE_OBJECT<class_@GlobalScope_constant_TYPE_OBJECT>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"} and it inherits from a class;
- `type` is the property\'s type, as an
  `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} (see
  `Variant.Type<enum_@GlobalScope_Variant.Type>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"});
- `hint` is *how* the property is meant to be edited (see
  `PropertyHint<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyHint>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"});
- `hint_string` depends on the hint (see
  `PropertyHint<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyHint>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"});
- `usage` is a combination of
  `PropertyUsageFlags<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyUsageFlags>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* In GDScript, all class members are treated as properties.
In C# and GDExtension, it may be necessary to explicitly mark class
members as Godot properties using decorators or attributes.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_script}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **get_script**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the object\'s `Script<class_Script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} instance, or `null` if no script is attached.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_signal_connection_list}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **get_signal_connection_list**(signal:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_get_signal_connection_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns an `Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of
connections for the given `signal` name. Each connection is represented
as a `Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} that
contains three entries:

- `signal` is a reference to the
  `Signal<class_Signal>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `callable` is a reference to the connected
  `Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"};
- `flags` is a combination of
  `ConnectFlags<enum_Object_ConnectFlags>`{.interpreted-text
  role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_signal_list}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\[`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}\] **get_signal_list**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_get_signal_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the list of existing signals as an
`Array<class_Array>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} of dictionaries.

\*\*Note:\*\* Due of the implementation, each
`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} is
formatted very similarly to the returned values of
`get_method_list<class_Object_method_get_method_list>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_get_translation_domain}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**get_translation_domain**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_get_translation_domain>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the name of the translation domain used by
`tr<class_Object_method_tr>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} and
`tr_n<class_Object_method_tr_n>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. See also
`TranslationServer<class_TranslationServer>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_has_connections}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**has_connections**(signal:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_has_connections>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if any connection exists on the given `signal` name.

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `signal` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`SignalName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_has_meta}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **has_meta**(name:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_has_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if a metadata entry is found with the given `name`. See
also `get_meta<class_Object_method_get_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `set_meta<class_Object_method_set_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`remove_meta<class_Object_method_remove_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* A metadata\'s name must be a valid identifier as per
`StringName.is_valid_identifier<class_StringName_method_is_valid_identifier>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method.

\*\*Note:\*\* Metadata that has a name starting with an underscore (`_`)
is considered editor-only. Editor-only metadata is not displayed in the
Inspector and should not be edited, although it can still be found by
this method.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_has_method}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **has_method**(method:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_has_method>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the given `method` name exists in the object.

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `method` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`MethodName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_has_signal}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **has_signal**(signal:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_has_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the given `signal` name exists in the object.

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `signal` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`SignalName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_has_user_signal}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**has_user_signal**(signal:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_has_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the given user-defined `signal` name exists. Only
signals added with
`add_user_signal<class_Object_method_add_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} are included. See also
`remove_user_signal<class_Object_method_remove_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_is_blocking_signals}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**is_blocking_signals**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_is_blocking_signals>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the object is blocking its signals from being emitted.
See
`set_block_signals<class_Object_method_set_block_signals>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_is_class}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **is_class**(class:
`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_is_class>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the object inherits from the given `class`. See also
`get_class<class_Object_method_get_class>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var sprite2d = Sprite2D.new() sprite2d.is_class(\"Sprite2D\") \# Returns
true sprite2d.is_class(\"Node\") \# Returns true
sprite2d.is_class(\"Node3D\") \# Returns false
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var sprite2D = new Sprite2D(); sprite2D.IsClass(\"Sprite2D\"); //
Returns true sprite2D.IsClass(\"Node\"); // Returns true
sprite2D.IsClass(\"Node3D\"); // Returns false
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* This method ignores `class_name` declarations in the
object\'s script.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_is_connected}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**is_connected**(signal:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, callable:
`Callable<class_Callable>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_is_connected>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if a connection exists between the given `signal` name
and `callable`.

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `signal` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot methods. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`SignalName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_is_queued_for_deletion}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**is_queued_for_deletion**()
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_is_queued_for_deletion>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the
`Node.queue_free<class_Node_method_queue_free>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method was called for the object.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_notification}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**notification**(what: `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
reversed: `bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} = false)
`🔗<class_Object_method_notification>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Sends the given `what` notification to all classes inherited by the
object, triggering calls to
`_notification<class_Object_private_method__notification>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, starting from the highest ancestor (the **Object** class)
and going down to the object\'s script.

If `reversed` is `true`, the call order is reversed.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var player = Node2D.new() player.set_script(load(\"<res://player.gd>\"))

player.notification(NOTIFICATION_ENTER_TREE) \# The call order is Object
-\> Node -\> Node2D -\> player.gd.

player.notification(NOTIFICATION_ENTER_TREE, true) \# The call order is
player.gd -\> Node2D -\> Node -\> Object.
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var player = new Node2D();
player.SetScript(GD.Load(\"<res://player.gd>\"));

player.Notification(NotificationEnterTree); // The call order is
GodotObject -\> Node -\> Node2D -\> player.gd.

player.Notification(NotificationEnterTree, true); // The call order is
player.gd -\> Node2D -\> Node -\> GodotObject.
:::
:::::

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_notify_property_list_changed}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**notify_property_list_changed**()
`🔗<class_Object_method_notify_property_list_changed>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Emits the
`property_list_changed<class_Object_signal_property_list_changed>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} signal. This is mainly used to refresh the editor, so that
the Inspector and editor plugins are properly updated.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_property_can_revert}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**property_can_revert**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns `true` if the given `property` has a custom default value. Use
`property_get_revert<class_Object_method_property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to get the `property`\'s default value.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method is used by the Inspector dock to display a
revert icon. The object must implement
`_property_can_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to customize the default value. If
`_property_can_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is not implemented, this method returns `false`.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_property_get_revert}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
**property_get_revert**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"}
`🔗<class_Object_method_property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Returns the custom default value of the given `property`. Use
`property_can_revert<class_Object_method_property_can_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to check if the `property` has a custom default value.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method is used by the Inspector dock to display a
revert icon. The object must implement
`_property_get_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to customize the default value. If
`_property_get_revert<class_Object_private_method__property_get_revert>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is not implemented, this method returns `null`.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_remove_meta}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**remove_meta**(name: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) `🔗<class_Object_method_remove_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Removes the given entry `name` from the object\'s metadata. See also
`has_meta<class_Object_method_has_meta>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`get_meta<class_Object_method_get_meta>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
and `set_meta<class_Object_method_set_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* A metadata\'s name must be a valid identifier as per
`StringName.is_valid_identifier<class_StringName_method_is_valid_identifier>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method.

\*\*Note:\*\* Metadata that has a name starting with an underscore (`_`)
is considered editor-only. Editor-only metadata is not displayed in the
Inspector and should not be edited, although it can still be found by
this method.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_remove_user_signal}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**remove_user_signal**(signal:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_remove_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Removes the given user signal `signal` from the object. See also
`add_user_signal<class_Object_method_add_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and
`has_user_signal<class_Object_method_has_user_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set**(property: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, value: `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) `🔗<class_Object_method_set>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Assigns `value` to the given `property`. If the property does not exist
or the given `value`\'s type doesn\'t match, nothing happens.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node2D.new() node.set(\"global_scale\", Vector2(8, 2.5))
print(node.global_scale) \# Prints (8, 2.5)
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node2D(); node.Set(Node2D.PropertyName.GlobalScale, new
Vector2(8, 2.5)); GD.Print(node.GlobalScale); // Prints Vector2(8, 2.5)
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `property` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot properties. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`PropertyName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_block_signals}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_block_signals**(enable: `bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_set_block_signals>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

If set to `true`, the object becomes unable to emit signals. As such,
`emit_signal<class_Object_method_emit_signal>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} and signal connections will not work, until it is set to
`false`.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_deferred}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_deferred**(property:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, value:
`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_set_deferred>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Assigns `value` to the given `property`, at the end of the current
frame. This is equivalent to calling
`set<class_Object_method_set>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} through
`call_deferred<class_Object_method_call_deferred>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node2D.new() add_child(node)

node.rotation = 1.5 node.set_deferred(\"rotation\", 3.0)
print(node.rotation) \# Prints 1.5

await get_tree().process_frame print(node.rotation) \# Prints 3.0
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node2D(); node.Rotation = 1.5f;
node.SetDeferred(Node2D.PropertyName.Rotation, 3f);
GD.Print(node.Rotation); // Prints 1.5

await ToSignal(GetTree(), SceneTree.SignalName.ProcessFrame);
GD.Print(node.Rotation); // Prints 3.0
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `property` must be in snake_case when referring to
built-in Godot properties. Prefer using the names exposed in the
`PropertyName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_indexed}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_indexed**(property_path:
`NodePath<class_NodePath>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, value:
`Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_set_indexed>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Assigns a new `value` to the property identified by the `property_path`.
The path should be a `NodePath<class_NodePath>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} relative to this object, and can use the colon character
(`:`) to access nested properties.

::::: {.tabs}
::: {.code-tab}
gdscript

var node = Node2D.new() node.set_indexed(\"position\", Vector2(42, 0))
node.set_indexed(\"position:y\", -10) print(node.position) \# Prints
(42, -10)
:::

::: {.code-tab}
csharp

var node = new Node2D(); node.SetIndexed(\"position\", new Vector2(42,
0)); node.SetIndexed(\"position:y\", -10); GD.Print(node.Position); //
Prints (42, -10)
:::
:::::

\*\*Note:\*\* In C#, `property_path` must be in snake_case when
referring to built-in Godot properties. Prefer using the names exposed
in the `PropertyName` class to avoid allocating a new
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} on each
call.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_message_translation}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_message_translation**(enable: `bool<class_bool>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_set_message_translation>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

If set to `true`, allows the object to translate messages with
`tr<class_Object_method_tr>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} and
`tr_n<class_Object_method_tr_n>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. Enabled
by default. See also
`can_translate_messages<class_Object_method_can_translate_messages>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_meta}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_meta**(name: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, value: `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) `🔗<class_Object_method_set_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Adds or changes the entry `name` inside the object\'s metadata. The
metadata `value` can be any `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, although some types cannot be serialized correctly.

If `value` is `null`, the entry is removed. This is the equivalent of
using `remove_meta<class_Object_method_remove_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}. See also
`has_meta<class_Object_method_has_meta>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
and `get_meta<class_Object_method_get_meta>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* A metadata\'s name must be a valid identifier as per
`StringName.is_valid_identifier<class_StringName_method_is_valid_identifier>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method.

\*\*Note:\*\* Metadata that has a name starting with an underscore (`_`)
is considered editor-only. Editor-only metadata is not displayed in the
Inspector and should not be edited, although it can still be found by
this method.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_script}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_script**(script: `Variant<class_Variant>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) `🔗<class_Object_method_set_script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Attaches `script` to the object, and instantiates it. As a result, the
script\'s `_init<class_Object_private_method__init>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is called. A `Script<class_Script>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is used to extend the object\'s functionality.

If a script already exists, its instance is detached, and its property
values and state are lost. Built-in property values are still kept.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_set_translation_domain}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`void (No return value.)`{.interpreted-text role="abbr"}
**set_translation_domain**(domain:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"})
`🔗<class_Object_method_set_translation_domain>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Sets the name of the translation domain used by
`tr<class_Object_method_tr>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} and
`tr_n<class_Object_method_tr_n>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. See also
`TranslationServer<class_TranslationServer>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_to_string}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **to_string**()
`🔗<class_Object_method_to_string>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Returns a `String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
representing the object. Defaults to `"<ClassName#RID>"`. Override
`_to_string<class_Object_private_method__to_string>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} to customize the string representation of the object.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_tr}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **tr**(message:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, context:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} = &\"\")
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_tr>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

Translates a `message`, using the translation catalogs configured in the
Project Settings. Further `context` can be specified to help with the
translation. Note that most `Control<class_Control>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} nodes automatically translate their strings, so this method
is mostly useful for formatted strings or custom drawn text.

If
`can_translate_messages<class_Object_method_can_translate_messages>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is `false`, or no translation is available, this method
returns the `message` without changes. See
`set_message_translation<class_Object_method_set_message_translation>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

For detailed examples, see
`Internationalizing games <../tutorials/i18n/internationalizing_games>`{.interpreted-text
role="doc"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method can\'t be used without an **Object** instance,
as it requires the
`can_translate_messages<class_Object_method_can_translate_messages>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method. To translate strings in a static context, use
`TranslationServer.translate<class_TranslationServer_method_translate>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

::: {.rst-class}
classref-item-separator
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: {#class_Object_method_tr_n}
::: {.rst-class}
classref-method
:::
::::

`String<class_String>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} **tr_n**(message:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
plural_message: `StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, n: `int<class_int>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, context:
`StringName<class_StringName>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} = &\"\")
`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`{.interpreted-text
role="abbr"} `🔗<class_Object_method_tr_n>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}

Translates a `message` or `plural_message`, using the translation
catalogs configured in the Project Settings. Further `context` can be
specified to help with the translation.

If
`can_translate_messages<class_Object_method_can_translate_messages>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} is `false`, or no translation is available, this method
returns `message` or `plural_message`, without changes. See
`set_message_translation<class_Object_method_set_message_translation>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.

The `n` is the number, or amount, of the message\'s subject. It is used
by the translation system to fetch the correct plural form for the
current language.

For detailed examples, see
`Localization using gettext <../tutorials/i18n/localization_using_gettext>`{.interpreted-text
role="doc"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* Negative and `float<class_float>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} numbers may not properly apply to some countable subjects.
It\'s recommended to handle these cases with
`tr<class_Object_method_tr>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.

\*\*Note:\*\* This method can\'t be used without an **Object** instance,
as it requires the
`can_translate_messages<class_Object_method_can_translate_messages>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} method. To translate strings in a static context, use
`TranslationServer.translate_plural<class_TranslationServer_method_translate_plural>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}.
